[Weave] annotation queue docs-1869 (#2119)
wandb/docs: weave/guides/tracking/annotation-review.mdx

3. Submit feedback using the provided annotation fields.

Your progress is saved automatically after you submit an item. If you need to pause and resume your work later, the review automatically resumes at the first incomplete item. Once all items have been reviewed, the Annotation Queue table reflects completion of the work.

### Review a queue item

For each item, the review interface shows two panes:
- A trace pane showing selected input context (such as prompts, documents, or images) and the corresponding model response or decision.
- An item pane containing an annotation entry form containing annotation fields.

Complete each annotation field according to the instructions provided for the queue, then click **Submit and next** to save this item and continue to the next.

<Frame>
  ![Annotation queue review interface for a single trace item, showing a trace information pane alongside an annotation form pane where reviewers submit structured feedback and move through the queue.](./imgs/AnnotationSubmitItem.png)
</Frame>

<Tip>
In the trace pane header, you can click the Trace ID suffix (for example, "b3ea") to open a panel showing the full trace details for the call.
</Tip>

> If any annotator has already reviewed an item in the queue, both pane headers of the review interface are decorated with "Has feedback" and "Response submitted" indicators.

Reviewer: I feel it is necessary to explain to the user what is going to happen if a queue item has already been annotated?

1. Can another user still give feedback(annotate) to the same queue item?
2. What is the implications if another user still give feedback? how would it impact the current queue reviewing progress?

Author: I agree the Docs should clarify this.  But, do we know the answers or has this behavior not been sorted out yet?

Reviewer: Yes the answers are (at the moment):

1. Yes.
2. Only the first annotation will advance the queue’s overall progress. Later users may still leave feedback on completed items, but their comments will be separate—they will not alter or remove the original feedback, nor will they change the item’s status. We do not track subsequent edits, aside from allowing users to submit feedback on a completed call. This maintains consistency, since users can already freely edit their own feedback from the call details pane even without the annotation feature.

Author: So question about2:  If i navigate to like Item 2 of 5, and someone else already had submitted feedback for that item (thus it has the "Has feedback" and "Response submitted" indicators)... what does the submit button say: does is say 'Submit' or does it say 'Edit feedback'?  Hopefully it says 'Submit' based on what you describe above (and i know that if **I** am the one that had already entered that feedback that it would say 'Edit Feedback' which makes sense).

Reviewer: You have a good point here, however the current implementation doesn't make a distinction yet and always say "Edit feedback". It can be a  logical defect we tolerate, otherwise lets backlog a bug for now.

Author: okay, i guess I should add a Note then to the docs that if you were not the annotator to originally submit the feedback, that this button will not edit the feedback but will instead make an additional feedback entry for this item.

---
title: "Review items in an annotation queue"
description: "Evaluate trace items and submit structured feedback using a simplified review interface."
---

Annotation queues provide a focused review interface for domain experts. You review one item at a time, examine the provided context, and submit structured feedback using predefined fields.

> You do not need to understand the underlying model or tracing system to complete reviews.

Reviewer 2: I feel weird about this line, because my first question after reading it was, "why?" but you kinda answered that in the opening line. Maybe we can add some more context here about how the queue interface is designed for external stakeholders or something.

It's not a super big deal; it just kinda caught on the edges of my brain.

## Annotation workflow

As an annotator, your task consists of:

> 1. Open the shared annotation queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Opening the shared annotation queue.
```
gerund agreement with the prior clause. We should do this for all three

Author: we want this imperative, since it's steps. so instead I changed the lead in text to make that more clear and standard

2. Review each item. You can move forward and backward through items in the queue at any time.
3. Submit feedback using the provided annotation fields.

> Your progress is saved automatically after you submit an item. If you need to pause and resume your work later, the review automatically resumes at the first incomplete item. Once all items have been reviewed, the Annotation Queue table reflects completion of the work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Weave saves your progress automatically after you submit an item. If you need to pause and resume your work later, the review automatically resumes at the first incomplete item. Once all items have been reviewed, the Annotation Queue table reflects completion of the work.
```

### Review a queue item

For each item, the review interface shows two panes:
- A trace pane showing selected input context (such as prompts, documents, or images) and the corresponding model response or decision.
- An item pane containing an annotation entry form containing annotation fields.

Complete each annotation field according to the instructions provided for the queue, then click **Submit and next** to save this item and continue to the next.

<Frame>
  ![Annotation queue review interface for a single trace item, showing a trace information pane alongside an annotation form pane where reviewers submit structured feedback and move through the queue.](./imgs/AnnotationSubmitItem.png)
</Frame>

<Tip>
In the trace pane header, you can click the Trace ID suffix (for example, "b3ea") to open a panel showing the full trace details for the call.
</Tip>

If any annotator has already reviewed an item in the queue, both pane headers of the review interface are decorated with "Has feedback" and "Response submitted" indicators.

> You can still provide feedback for an item even if it has already been reviewed by someone else.  In this case, although the feedback submission button will still say **Edit feedback**, it will create a new feedback entry with your responses.

Reviewer 2: I feel like I would need to be more familiar with the UI's behavior to rewrite this, but I think we should try to rewrite the second line to not use the future tense.

<Note>

> If you submit feedback to an item already reviewed by someone else, your feedback will be stored **in addition to** the original annotator's feedback.

Reviewer 2: Again, I don't this this needs to be a note and can be rewritten to use present tense and more active voice, like this:

```suggestion
If you submit feedback on an item that has already been reviewed by someone else, Weave stores the feedback **in addition to** the original annotator's feedback. It does not edit or overwrite the original feedback.
```

Author: I fixed the tense, but for now i'm leaving the note because 1. in this case it is intentionally redundant to the printed text (said a different way) - e.g. if they really are scanning right past note boxes they are still safe.  
if it wasn't a note box, it would have to be removed because it is redundant - but in this case we need to highlight this because it is kinda like a  'known bug' that they cannot currently address.  so i'm trying to catch both cases, those that only read the important notes and those that skip them.  (we did this a lot in AWS, knowing the same fact you mentioned, some people don't see note boxes.  But general sentiment at AWS was there is a subclass that skims so hard they *only* see note boxes, so for important stuff we kinda did both.  happy to chat this out further and align with the team.)
